# Homework 2
- Name: Nguyen Cat Nguyen
- KUID: 3077463

## Authentication
### 1. 
```
a. Please explain how could the AS verify the secret key K_Alice. 
b. What is K_1? Who generate it? 
c. Can Alice read the content of Ticket_TGS? Can Alice forge the ticket? Can Alice reuse the 
ticket in another time? 
d. How could the ticket-granting server authenticate Alice? 
```

a. The AS can verify the secret key K_Alice by compare the password Alice used to login with the password stored in the database. If they are the same, the AS will know that Alice is the owner of the password and the secret key K_Alice.
b. K_1 is a session key generated by the TGS. The TGS will generate K_1 and send it to Alice.
c. Alice cannot read the content of the ticket because the ticket is encrypted by K_1.
    - She can't forge the ticket because the ticket is encrypted by K_1 and she doesn't know K_1.
    - She can't reuse the ticket in another time because the ticket is encrypted by K_1 and she doesn't know K_1.
d. The ticket-granting server can authenticate Alice by using the Ticket_TGS. 

## Database Security
### 3.
```To prevent the inference attacks, the database systems implement multiple controls. Please list these controls discussed in the 
lecture and pick one to explain which type of inferences it prevents. 
```
- There are three controls to prevent inference attacks:
    - Query controls
    - Item controls
    - Partitioning
- Queue controls: 
    - Limit overlap between new and previous queries by prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data through the use of query controls.
### 4. 
```
What is the tracker attack? Can we use access control to prevent this attack? If so, briefly explain 
how this access control could be impletemented? 
```
- `Tracker attack`: is a type of privacy attack that the attacker monitors the user's online activities and uses the information to infer the user's private information.
- Yes, we can use access control to prevent this attack. Access control help limiting the amount of data that can be collected by the attacker.
- There are many way to implemented access control, one of it is use SQL implements access control with database privileges. First we need to identify the database object that need to be protected, define the privileges required for each object, then grant the privileges to the users.
## Operating System Security 
### 5. 
```
What is protection domain?  
```
- `Protection domain`: is a collection of objects to which a process has access.









Nguyễn Cát Nguyên4/2/2023, 2:45:39 PM


